---
title: "mid_registrar Module"
description: "The *mid_registrar* is a mid-component of a SIP platform, designed to work between end users and the platform's main registration component. It opens up new possibilities for leveraging existing infrastructure in order to continue to grow (as subscribers and as registration traffic) wh..."
---

## Admin Guide


### Overview


The *mid_registrar* is a mid-component of a SIP
		platform, designed to work between end users and the platform's main
		registration component.

		It opens up new possibilities for leveraging existing infrastructure in
		order to continue to grow (as subscribers and as registration traffic)
		while keeping an existing low-resources registrar server.


Acting as a registration front-end to the main SIP registrar, the
		mid-registrar is able to:


- convert incoming high-rate registration traffic into a low-rate
			variant, towards the main registrar layer. With proper
			configuration, it can absorb over 90% of existing registration
			traffic while correctly managing the back-end's user location
			state, effectively reducing resource usage at the respective layer.
- stay synchronized with the main registrar (from a user
				location perspective), by properly
				accepting the contact states and expirations it decides.


#### Path Support (RFC 3327)


The mid_registrar module includes SIP Path header field support
		according to
		[RFC 3327](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3327),
		for usage in registrars and home-proxies.


A call to *mid_registrar_save()* stores, if path support is enabled
		in the mid_registrar module, the values of the Path
		Header(s) along with the Contact information into usrloc. There are
		three modes for building the reply to a REGISTER message which
		includes one or more Path header fields:


- *off* - stores the value of the
				Path headers into usrloc without passing it back to
				the UAC in the reply.
- *lazy* - stores the Path header and
				passes it back to the UAC if Path-support is indicated
				by the "path" param in the Supported HF.
- *strict* - rejects the registration
				with "420 Bad Extension" if there's a Path
				header but no support for it is indicated by the UAC.
				Otherwise it's stored and passed back to the UAC.


A call to *mid_registrar_lookup()* always uses the Path header if
		found, and inserts it as Route HF either in front of
		the first Route HF, or after the last Via HF if no
		Route is present. It also sets the destination URI to
		the first Path URI, thus overwriting the received-URI,
		because NAT has to be handled at the outbound-proxy of
		the UAC (the first hop after client's NAT).


The whole process is transparent to the user, so no
		config changes are required besides enabling one of the
		"p0" / "p1" / "p2" flags when calling *mid_registrar_save()*.


#### GRUU Support (RFC 5627)


The mid_registrar module includes support for Globally Routable User
		Agent URIs according to [RFC 5627](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5627).


A call to *mid_registrar_save()* stores, if the phone supports GRUU,
		the values of the SIP Instance along with the contact into usrloc.
		The module will generate two types of GRUUs:


- *public* - exposes the underlying AOR,
				constructed just by attaching the SIP Instance as the ;gr
				parameter value. These are persistent, valid as long as the
				contact registration is valid.
- *temporary* - hides the underlying AOR
				Each new Register request leads to the construction of a
				new temporary GRUU, while Register requests with a different
				Call-ID lead to the invalidation of all the previous generated
				temporary GRUUs.


A call to *mid_registrar_lookup()* will try to detect if the R-URI contains a
		GRUU.  If it does, it will route the request just for the Contact
		that the specific AOR belongs to, without appending any other branches.


Even if the the GRUU handling during the registration process is
		transparent to the user, so no config changes are required, you need
		to take care of the GRUU specifics when handling mid-dialog requests.


As the GRUU will be present in the contact header of the initial
		requests generated byt GRUU enabled devices, you will have to also
		do a lookup() when receiving a mid-dialog request with the GRUU
		indication in the RURI.


#### SIP Push Notification Support (RFC 8599)


The mid_registrar module includes support for standards-based SIP Push
		Notifications, per
		[RFC 8599](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8599).
		Support for the basic version of the draft can be enabled by switching
		[pn enable](#param_pn_enable) to *true*.  The
		module also includes optional support for sending Push Notifications
		during long-lived dialogs ([see RFC section 6](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8599#page-23)),
		through the [pn enable purr](#param_pn_enable_purr) switch.


Essential mechanics behind the Push Notification (PN) support:


- the PN support is fully compatible with the existing logic and
				enabling it does not impose any limitations, as the
				mid_registrar can simultaneously handle both SIP PN compliant
				and standard SIP User Agents
- OpenSIPS will raise a
				[E_UL_CONTACT_REFRESH](../usrloc#event_E_UL_CONTACT_REFRESH)
				event any time a Push Notification needs to be sent to a
				PN-enabled contact.  The event includes the PN coordinates of
				the contact -- they may be found in the Contact URI ('uri'
				event parameter) and may be extracted using the {uri.param,name}
				transformation. From here onwards, it is up to the script
				developer to trigger the Push Notification (e.g. possibly by
				sending an HTTP POST with the
				[rest_client](../rest_client) module), thus forcing
				a re-registration from the device.
- REGISTER processing is unchanged -- PN-enabled UAs are saved
				just as regular UAs, with the former ones additionally having
				the *4* bitflag set in the "Flags" field of
				any MI listing of contacts, for differentiation purposes
- initial INVITE processing is barely changed, with the *mid_registrar_lookup()*
				function now additionally returning a value of
				**2** if the only
				found contacts were PN-enabled contacts, all which required a
				Push Notification.  This means that PNs have been triggered for
				each of them and t_relay() is not required, since they are not
				reachable until they re-register!
Using the event_routing module, OpenSIPS will transparently
				fork a new branch from the current INVITE on each
				re-registration from these contacts within the accepted
				[pn refresh timeout](#param_pn_refresh_timeout)
- mid-dialog requests: In some cases (e.g. long-lived dialogs),
				a PN may be required before being able to route a mid-dialog
				request to a SIP UA.  The [afunc pn process purr](#afunc_pn_process_purr)
				async function will take care of triggering the PN event and
				resuming the script as soon as a re-registration from the
				concerned contact is received.


For more information or examples, refer to the documentation of the
		"pn_xxx" module parameters or the OpenSIPS blog posts around the
		"SIP Push Notification" topic.


### Working modes


The mid_registrar may function in one of several modes:


#### Contact mirroring (default)


In "contact mirroring" mode, the mid-registrar will only insert itself
		in the SIP traffic flow between end user and main registrar by
		altering the Contact header field values. See section
		[sip flow insertion](#auto_insertion_into_future_sip_flows) for a detailed description of
		possible Contact-based insertion modes. The incoming REGISTER requests
		will be proxied further to the main registrar; the registered contact
		will be stored in the mid-registrar only on 2xx replies, according to
		the information returned by the main registrar.


A possible usage of this mode, for example, would be to clone
		registrations on a SIP front-end that extends the main platform with
		new services (like adding IM/messaging routing).


#### Contact throttling


In "contact throttling" mode, the mid-registrar can significantly
		reduce the registration rate on the main registrar side (between
		mid-registrar and main registrar), while coping with a high registration
		rate on the end-user side (between end-user and mid-registrar). This
		is useful in scenarios were the end-users are very dynamic and
		short-lived  (e.g. mobile devices), but the main registrar cannot cope
		with large amounts of registration traffic.


Traffic conversion is done in a *"per-device"*
		manner, according to each unique SIP Contact header field value. It is
		achieved by increasing the "expires" parameter value of each contact,
		when relaying registrations to the main registrar.
		Once such a registration is completed, subsequent registrations for the
		same SIP Contact header field value will be continuously absorbed by
		the mid-registrar until, eventually, the lifetime of the remote
		registration will have decreased enough that a refresh (i.e. simply
		forwarding the next REGISTER request) is mandatory.


A common occurence is for some SIP User Agents to lose their network
		connection (especially when dealing with mobile devices), hence they do
		not properly de-register from the mid-registrar. In this case, in order
		to avoid stale registrations on the main registrar (which contains SIP
		contacts with greatly extended lifetimes!), the mid-registrar will
		appropriately generate De-REGISTER requests and remove these contacts
		from the main registrar's location service as soon as it considers
		them to have expired.


The main practical use for this mode is registration traffic conversion.
		By minimizing the strain of processing registrations on the main
		registrar, we allow it to dedicate more system resources to critical
		areas of the platform, such as advanced SIP calling features and/or
		media handling.


#### AOR throttling


In "AOR throttling" mode, the mid-registrar helps with handling multiple
		registrations per user/AOR. This is done by aggregating all the end-user
		registered contacts from a single AOR under a single registration into
		the main registrar. This can dramatically reduce the incoming rate of
		registrations (to a single registration per AOR), but also helps in dealing
		with registrar servers which are not able to implement parallel forking/ringing.


Traffic conversion is done in a *"per-user"*
		manner, according to each unique SIP AOR. It is achieved by
		providing a contact with a large "expires" parameter value,
		when relaying registrations to the main registrar.
		Once such a registration is completed, subsequent registrations to the same
		Address-of-record  will be continuously absorbed by the mid-registrar until,
		eventually, the lifetime of the remote registration will have decreased enough
		that a refresh (i.e. simply forwarding the next REGISTER request) is mandatory.


A common occurence is for some SIP User Agents to lose their network connection
		(especially when dealing with mobile devices), hence they do not properly de-register
		from the mid-registrar. In this case, in order to avoid stale registrations on the
		main registrar (which contains SIP AORs with greatly extended lifetimes!),
		the mid-registrar will appropriately generate De-REGISTER requests and remove
		these contacts from the main registrar's location service as soon as it considers
		them to have expired.


Of all three modes, "AOR throttling" potentially offers the best reduction in
			traffic on the way to the main registrar. By aggregating contacts, it also
			has the added benefit of reducing the number of contacts that the main registrar
			must handle.


Regarding SIP request mangling in this mode, the module will always
			replace all Contact header field values with a single Contact header
			field value when proxying registrations to the main registrar, indicating
			that the AOR is local to the front-end, and its contacts can be found there.


The main practical uses for this mode are registration traffic conversion
		towards the main registrar, as well as taking over its call forking
		duties. By minimizing the
		strain of processing registrations / forking calls on the main registrar,
		we allow it to dedicate more system resources to critical areas of the
		platform, such as advanced SIP calling features and/or media handling.


### Auto-Insertion Into Future SIP Flows


A defining feature of the mid-registrar is that it must be easy to
		integrate, ideally a "plug-and-play" SIP component. It should not
		impose any "outbound-proxy" configurations on any of the platform's
		layers and automatically insert itself on the call flows which follow
		successful registrations.


Regardless of its configured working [mode](#param_mode), the
		mid-registrar will mangle the Contact header field URIs of all
		forwarded REGISTER requests and replace the original "hostname" and
		"port" parts of a Contact URI with one of its listening interfaces.


Additionally, in modes "0" and "1", each Contact will be assigned an
		unique identifier, which will be utilized in future contact-based
		lookup operations. This information will be included in each forwarded
		Contact URI. The [contact id insertion](#param_contact_id_insertion) modparam
		controls how this information is included.


### Dependencies


#### OpenSIPS Modules


The following modules must be loaded before this module:


- *usrloc*
- *signaling*
- *tm*
- *event_routing*,
				if [pn enable](#param_pn_enable) is set to *true*.


#### External Libraries or Applications


The following libraries or applications must be installed before
		running OpenSIPS with this module loaded:


- *None*


### Exported Parameters


#### mode (integer)


Working mode of the module.
			Refer to [sec working modes](#working_modes) for
			more details.


The following is true for **all** working modes:


- when a REGISTER is received, the script writer must call
			*[mid registrar save](#func_mid_registrar_save)*
- the mid-registrar will insert itself on the call flow of
			all registrations according to the
			*[contact id insertion](#param_contact_id_insertion)*.
- registrations forwarded by the mid-registrar will transparently
			result in a user location update only if the reply status code from
			the downstream registrar is 2xx.


Each working mode behaves differently, as follows:


- *0 (Contact mirroring mode)*
			The module will only insert itself on the call flow.
			Contact expirations are left unchanged.
- *1 (Contact throttling mode)*
			Contact throttling is a first step in lowering registration traffic rates. This
			is possible through the use of the
			*[outgoing expires](#param_outgoing_expires)* module
			parameter or the corresponding parameter to
			*[mid registrar save](#func_mid_registrar_save)*,
			which allow the script writer to prolong the life of the registrations on the way
			to the main registrar.

			In this mode, the
			mid-registrar may alter Expires header field values or "expires" Contact
			header field parameters found in the initial request when forwarding registrations, according to
			*[outgoing expires](#param_outgoing_expires)*
- *2 (AOR throttling mode)*
		AOR throttling is a step beyond "Contact throttling", as the main registrar
		is only made aware of the network presence of AORs, rather than
		Contacts. This behaviour is also made possible through the
		*[outgoing expires](#param_outgoing_expires)* module
		parameter or the corresponding parameter to
		*[mid registrar save](#func_mid_registrar_save)*,
		which allow the script writer to prolong the life of the registrations on the way
		to the main registrar.
		In this mode, the mid-registrar will fully replace the Contact
		set of all forwarded registrations with a single Contact, advertising
		that the AOR is available to the main registrar. The expiration value
		for this Contact is given by 
		*[outgoing expires](#param_outgoing_expires)*.


Default value is **0** (contact mirroring mode)


```c title="Setting the *mode* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "mode", 2)
```


#### contact_id_insertion (integer)


Only relevant in a "mirroring" or "contact throttling"
			[mode](#param_mode). Controls where the additional
		unique Contact identification information (64-bit, hex-encoded integer)
		will be placed within outgoing Contact header field URIs. Refer to
		[sip flow insertion](#auto_insertion_into_future_sip_flows) for more details.


Possible values are:


- *"ct-param" (default)* - the contact IDs shall
			be appended to outgoing Contact URIs as ";ctid=" parameters.
- *"ct-username"* - the contact IDs will
			substitute the "username" parts of outgoing Contact URIs


```c title="Setting the *contact_id_insertion* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "contact_id_insertion", "ct-username")
```


#### contact_id_param (string)


Only relevant in a "mirroring" or "contact throttling"
			[mode](#param_mode). Specifies the name of the
			Contact URI parameter which is used by the module in order to
			match contacts and route SIP requests.


Default value is **"ctid"**


```c title="Setting the *contact_id_param* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "contact_id_param", "ctid")

# Example resulting Contact header field:
# Contact: <sip:liviu@10.0.0.10:5060;ctid=619244948763447138>;expires=180.
```


#### at_escape_str (string)


Only relevant when in "AoR throttling" [mode](#param_mode)
			and with the usrloc [use_domain](../usrloc#param_use_domain)
			setting enabled.  This string represents the escape sequence for
			the "@" character, which must be included, in one way or another,
			in mid-registrar's generated Contact URI usernames.


Setting this parameter to a different value may be useful in
			situations where the backend registrar is incompatible with the
			default escape string.


Default value is **"%40"**


```c title="Setting the *at_escape_str* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "at_escape_str", "___")

# Example Contact header field generated by mid-registrar:
# Contact: <sip:zach%40sipdomain.invalid@127.0.0.1:5060>;expires=120
```


#### outgoing_expires (integer)


Only relevant in Contact/AOR throttling modes. Sets a minimal
			value for the expiration intervals of egressing contacts.


Default value is **3600** (seconds)


```c title="Setting the *outgoing_expires* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "outgoing_expires", 3600)
```


#### received_avp (string)


The module will store the value of the AVP configured by this
		parameter in the *received* column of the user
		location table. It will leave the column empty if the AVP is empty.
		The AVP should contain a SIP URI consisting of the source IP, port,
		and protocol of the REGISTER message being processed.


> [!NOTE]
> The value of this parameter should be the same as the value of
			corresponding parameter of nathelper module.


Default value is **"NULL"** (disabled)


```c title="Setting the *received_avp* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "received_avp", "$avp(rcv)")
```


#### received_param (string)


The name of the parameter that will be appended to Contacts of
		200 OK replies if the received URI is set by nathelper module.


> [!NOTE]
> The value of this parameter should be the same as the value of
			corresponding parameter of nathelper module.


Default value is **"received"**


```c title="Setting the *received_param* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "received_param", "rcv")
```


#### extra_contact_params_avp (string)


An AVP specification. This AVP is evaluated during
		*[mid registrar save](#func_mid_registrar_save)*:
		if it holds a valid string, its content will be appended to
		*each* new Contact URI built by the mid-registrar,
		for the outgoing request.


Default value is **None** (not used)


```c title="Setting the *extra_contact_params_avp* module parameter"
# NB: AVPs are cleared with every new SIP request
modparam("mid_registrar", "extra_contact_params_avp", "$avp(extra_ct_params)")

# setting the AVP during SIP message processing
$avp(extra_ct_params) = ";transport=tls";
```


#### attr_avp (string)


AVP to store specific additional information for each registration.
		This information is read from the AVP and stored (in memory, DB or both)
		at [mid registrar save](#func_mid_registrar_save).  When the
		[mid registrar lookup](#func_mid_registrar_lookup) or 'is_registered()' (registrar)
		functions are called, the *attr_avp* will be
		populated with the value saved at [re]registration.


When doing call forking, the AVP will hold multiple values. The position of
		the corresponding attribute information in *attr_avp* is
		equal to the branch index.  An example scenario is given below.


*Default value is NULL.*


```c title="Set attr_avp parameter"
# reading attributes from the attr_pvar when doing parallel forking
...
modparam("mid_registrar", "attr_avp", "$avp(attr)")

...
if (is_method("REGISTER")) {
	$avp(attr) = "contact_info";
	mid_registrar_save("location");
	exit;
}
...
mid_registrar_lookup("location");
t_on_branch("parallel_fork");
...
branch_route [parallel_fork] {
	xlog("Attributes for branch $T_branch_idx: $(avp(attr)[$T_branch_idx])\n");
}

		
```


#### min_expires (integer)


The minimum expires value of a Contact, values lower than this
			minimum will be automatically set to the minimum. Value 0 disables the checking.


Default value is **10** (seconds)


```c title="Setting the *min_expires* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "min_expires", 600)
```


#### default_expires (integer)


If the processed message contains neither Expires HFs nor expires
			contact parameters, this value will be used as the expiration
			interval of any newly created usrloc records.


Default value is **3600** (seconds)


```c title="Setting the *default_expires* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "default_expires", 1800)
```


#### max_expires (integer)


The maximum expires value of a Contact, values higher than this
			maximum will be automatically set to the maximum. Value 0 disables the checking.


Default value is **3600** (seconds)


```c title="Setting the *max_expires* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "max_expires", 7200)
```


#### default_q (integer)


Sets the default *"q"* value for new contacts.
		Because OpenSIPS does not support floating point module parameters,
		the supplied *"q"* value must be multiplied by 1000.
		For example, if you want
		*[default q](#param_default_q)*
		to be 0.38, set this parameter to 380.


Default value is **0**


```c title="Setting the *default_q* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "default_q", 380)
```


#### tcp_persistent_flag (string)


Specifies the message flag to be used to control the
		module behaviour regarding TCP connections. If the flag is set for a
		REGISTER via TCP containing a TCP contact, the module, via the
		*[mid registrar save](#func_mid_registrar_save)*
		function, will set the lifetime of the TCP
		connection to the contact expire value. By doing this, the TCP
		connection will stay up as long as its contacts are valid.


Default value is **-1** (not set)


```c title="Setting the *tcp_persistent_flag* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "tcp_persistent_flag", "TCP_PERSIST_REGISTRATIONS")
```


#### realm_prefix (string)


In multi-domain user location scenarios
		(**"use_domain"** usrloc module parameter
		set to *"1"*),
		this parameter denotes a prefix to be automatically stripped from the
		hostname part of *To* header field URIs when doing
		a save, or *Request-URIs* when doing a lookup.


It is meant as an alternative to DNS SRV records (not all SIP clients
		support SRV lookups), a subdomain of
		 the master domain can be defined for SIP purposes (like
		 "sip.mydomain.net" pointing to same IP address as the SRV record for
		 "mydomain.net"). By ignoring the realm_prefix "sip.", at registration,
		 "sip.mydomain.net" will be translated to "mydomain.net".


Default value is **NULL** (none)


```c title="Setting the *realm_prefix* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "realm_prefix", "sip.")
```


#### case_sensitive (integer)


If set to 1, then AOR comparison will be case
		sensitive (as RFC3261 instructs), if set to 0 then
		AOR comparison will be case insensitive.


Default value is **1** (true)


```c title="Setting the *case_sensitive* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "case_sensitive", 0)
```


#### allow_dup_cseq (boolean)


Some SIP stacks will re-REGISTER using the same Call-ID and CSeq values.
		While rejecting such requests is consistent with RFC 3261 § 10.3.7, enabling
		this parameter instructs the mid_registrar to accept them instead,
		improving interoperability.


*Default value is *true* (duplicate CSeq is accepted).*


```c title="Setting the allow_dup_cseq parameter"
...
# strict RFC 3261 compliance: reject REGISTER requests with duplicate CSeq
modparam("
```


#### expires_max_deviation (integer)


Set this parameter in order to add a random +/- deviation up to
		and including the given value to the expiration interval of a
		newly registered contact.  For example, if this parameter is set to
		*100* and a phone registers for 1800 sec, the final
		expiry will be a random number in the [1700, 1900] interval.
		By randomizing the registration lifetimes of the contacts, the
		server is better equipped to deal with a post-restart *registration
		storm*, when all TCP connections are lost and a significant portion of
		UAs will re-register at the same time.  Thanks to the contact lifetime
		randomization, the registration storm will only happen once rather
		than, e.g., every 1800 seconds following the restart.


*Default value is 0 (no deviation).*


```c title="Setting the expires_max_deviation parameter"
...
# add a random +/- 0-100 seconds to each registration lifetime
modparam("
```


#### max_contacts (integer)


The parameter can be used to limit the number of contacts per
		AOR (Address of Record) in the user location database. Value 0
		disables the check.
		This is the default value and will be used only if no other value
		(for max_contacts) is passed as parameter to the save() function.
		That's it - the function parameter overwride this global parameter.


*Default value is 0.*


```c title="Set max_contacts parameter"
...
# Allow no more than 10 contacts per AOR
modparam("
```


#### max_username_len (integer)


The maximum length of the "username" part of an Address-of-Record SIP URI.


Default value is **64**.


```c title="Setting the *max_username_len* module parameter"
modparam("
```


#### max_domain_len (integer)


The maximum length of the "domain" part of an Address-of-Record SIP URI.


Default value is **64**.


```c title="Setting the *max_domain_len* module parameter"
modparam("
```


#### max_aor_len (integer)


The maximum length of an Address-of-Record SIP URI.


Default value is **256**.


```c title="Setting the *max_aor_len* module parameter"
modparam("
```


#### max_contact_len (integer)


The maximum length of a Contact header field SIP URI.


Default value is **255**.


```c title="Setting the *max_contact_len* module parameter"
modparam("
```


#### retry_after (integer)


The mid-registrar can generate 5xx replies to registrations in various
		situations. It could, for example, happen when the
		*[max contacts](#param_max_contacts)* parameter
		is set and the processing of REGISTER request would exceed the limit.
		In this case, OpenSIPS would respond with "503 Service Unavailable".


If you want to add the Retry-After header field in 5xx replies, set
		this parameter to a value greater than zero (0 means: do not add the
		header field). See section 20.33 of RFC3261 for more details.


Default value is **0** (disabled)


```c title="Setting the *retry_after* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "retry_after", 30)
```


#### disable_gruu (integer)


Globally disable GRUU handling.


Default value is **1** (GRUUs will not be handled)


```c title="Setting the *gruu_secret* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "disable_gruu", 0)
```


#### gruu_secret (string)


The string that will be used in XORing when generating
		temporary GRUUs.


Default value is **"0p3nS1pS"**


```c title="Setting the *gruu_secret* module parameter"
modparam("mid_registrar", "gruu_secret", "my_secret")
```


#### pn_enable (boolean)


Enable SIP Push Notification support ([RFC 8599](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8599)).
			If enabled, Contact header field URIs which include all
			[pn ct match params](#param_pn_ct_match_params) will be matched against
			existing bindings using only these parameters.  Otherwise,
			the module will attempt to match them as usual, using the current
			usrloc [matching_mode](../usrloc#param_matching_mode).


*Default value is **false**.*


```c title="Setting the pn_enable parameter"
...
modparam("
```


#### pn_providers (string)


A list of supported Push Notification providers.  While only three
		possible values are defined by RFC 8599 ("apns", "fcm" and "webpush"),
		non-standard values may be specified as well.


*Default value is **NULL**
						(not set).*


```c title="Setting the pn_providers parameter"
...
modparam("
```


#### pn_ct_match_params (string)


The minimally required list of RFC 8599 parameters (custom ones are
			accepted as well) which must be present in a Contact URI and
			identically match an existing binding in order for the binding
			to be refreshed during a SIP re-REGISTER.  If at least one such
			parameter is missing from a Contact header field URI, the module
			will fall back to performing regular contact matching.


Note that if all above PN Contact URI parameters match an existing
			binding, the match is considered to be successful regardless if
			other parts of the SIP URI do not match (e.g. hostname, port,
			other URI parameters, etc.).


After calling *mid_registrar_lookup()* or
			[afunc pn process purr](#afunc_pn_process_purr), the above PN-related
			parameters will be automatically stripped from the resulting
			Request and Contact URI event parameter, respectively.


*Default value is **"pn-provider, pn-prid, pn-param"**.*


```c title="Setting the pn_ct_match_params parameter"
...
modparam("
```


#### pn_pnsreg_interval (integer)


For devices capable of waking up and refreshing their binding on
			their own (signified by the *";+sip.pnsreg"*
			Contact header field parameter), this setting denotes the
			prior-to-expiration interval advertised by the server at which the
			device should issue its binding refresh request.


*Default value is **130**
						(seconds before expiry).*


```c title="Setting the pn_pnsreg_interval parameter"
...
modparam("
```


#### pn_trigger_interval (integer)


If a binding refresh REGISTER request from a given SIP endpoint does
			not arrive within at least [pn trigger interval](#param_pn_trigger_interval)
			seconds prior to expiration (e.g. because the device does not
			support *";+sip.pnsreg"* or because of other
			error conditions), the [E_UL_CONTACT_REFRESH](../usrloc#event_E_UL_CONTACT_REFRESH)
			usrloc event will be triggered.


Once [E_UL_CONTACT_REFRESH](../usrloc#event_E_UL_CONTACT_REFRESH)
			is triggered, the script writer should use
			the RFC 8599 parameters from the Contact URI in order to generate a
			Push Notification request to the PN provider of the device, in
			order to cause the device to wake up and re-register.


*Default value is **120**
						(seconds before expiry).*


```c title="Setting the pn_trigger_interval parameter"
...
modparam("
```


#### pn_skip_pn_interval (integer)


Following a successful (re)registration of a contact, this setting
			denotes a time interval, in seconds, during which the contact is
			assumed to be reachable, so any Push Notifications will be skipped.


*Default value is **0** seconds
					(always generate Push Notifications).*


```c title="Setting the pn_skip_pn_interval parameter"
...
modparam("
```


#### pn_refresh_timeout (integer)


This timeout starts counting following a *mid_registrar_lookup()* or a
			[afunc pn process purr](#afunc_pn_process_purr) which
			triggers a Push Notification.  The value represents the maximum
			allowed sum of the duration required for the Push Notification to
			be sent and the duration required for the corresponding
			re-registration from the device to arrive.


Once this timeout is exceeded for an initial or a mid-dialog
			request, any further re-registrations which match the pending Push
			Notification will no longer cause the desired effects. For example:


- pending initial INVITE transactions will complete and will no
				longer auto-fork an additional branch for each REGISTER
				sent by the callee side
- pending BYE messages will time out and OpenSIPS will attempt to
				route them despite not having received a confirmation that the
				target device is actually reachable


*Default value is **6** seconds.*


```c title="Setting the pn_refresh_timeout parameter"
...
modparam("
```


#### pn_enable_purr (boolean)


Enable the SIP Push Notification mechanism for long-lived dialogs.
			If enabled, the mid_registrar will include a
			*"+sip.pnspurr"*
			Feature-Caps header field tag in 200 OK replies to REGISTER
			requests.  This tag represents a unique identifier for the
			registration (PURR - Proxy Unique Registration Reference).


During dialog setup, each UA may include, in its Contact header,
			the PURR value returned by OpenSIPS during registration.  By
			including the PURR (e.g. ";pn-purr=XXX"), an agent indicates that
			it expects to be first awoken by a PN before being able to receive
			a mid-dialog request sent by the other party.


When enabling this parameter, make sure to also add logic for
			[afunc pn process purr](#afunc_pn_process_purr).


*Default value is **false**.*


```c title="Setting the pn_enable_purr parameter"
...
modparam("
```


### Exported Functions


#### mid_registrar_save(domain[, flags[, aor[, outgoing_expires[, ownership_tag]]]])


Function to be called when handling REGISTER requests. This function
		decides if a REGISTER should be forwarded to the main registrar and
		performs all the necessary changes over the registered contacts. The
		function is also covering the handling of the 2xx REGISTER replies -
		the contacts confirmed by the main registrar will be automatically
		saved in the local user location (without any additional scripting).


In Contact/AOR throttling modes (more info about working modes in [sec working modes](#working_modes)),
			the return value of this function indicates whether the script
			writer must forward the REGISTER request to the main registrar,
			or just wrap up any left-over processing and exit script execution, as
			the current REGISTER request has been answered with 200 OK
			(absorbed at mid-registrar level).


Depending on the current working
			*[mode](#param_mode)* and
			*[contact id insertion](#param_contact_id_insertion)*,
			the function may additionally perform
			the following series of transformations when relaying REGISTER requests:


- in *"Contact throttling"* mode

  - change the value of the *Expires*
								header field to the value of
								*outgoing_expires*, if given,
								otherwise the value given by the
								*[outgoing expires](#param_outgoing_expires)*
								module parameter.
								The same applies to any *";expires"*
								Contact URI parameter.
  - replace the "host:port" part of all Contact URIs of the
								incoming REGISTER request with an OpenSIPS listening interface
  - append a parameter to each
								*Contact* URI, which will
								allow the module to match the reply contacts
								and also route calls. The name of this URI
								parameter is configurable via
								*[contact id param](#param_contact_id_param)*
- in *"AOR throttling"* mode

  - change the value of the *Expires*
								header field to the value of
								*outgoing_expires*, if given,
								otherwise the value given by the
								*[outgoing expires](#param_outgoing_expires)*
								module parameter.
  - replace all *Contact* header
								fields of the request with a single *Contact* header field,
								which will contain the following SIP URI: "sip:address-of-record@proxy_ip:proxy_port"


Meaning of the parameters is as follows:


- *domain* (static string) - logical domain within the registrar.
			If a database is used, then this must be name of the *usrloc*
			table which stores the contacts
- *flags* (string, optional) - string composed of
				one or more of the following flags, comma-separated:

  - *'memory-only'* - (old *m* flag)
	save the contacts only in memory cache without no DB operation;
  - *'no-reply'* - (old *r* flag)
	do not generate a SIP reply to the current REGISTER request.
  - *'max-contacts=[int]'* - (old *c*
	flag) this flag can be used to limit the number of contacts for this
	AOR (Address of Record) in the user location database.
	Value 0 disables the check. This parameter overrides the
	global "max_contacts" module parameter.
  - *'force-registration'* - (old *f*
	flag) this flag can be used to force the registration of NEW contacts
	even if the maximum number of contacts is reached. In such
	a case, older contacts will be removed to make space to the
	new ones, without exceeding the maximum allowed number.
	This flag makes sense only if "max-contacts" is used.
  - *'matching-mode=[val]'* - (old *M*
	flag) How the matching should be performed between the uploaded
	contacts (by the currently handled REGISTER) and the
	already know contacts (in memory or DB). This options will
	be used only for the current operation and can be:
	
	
		*'0'* - contact URI matching
		only
	
	
		*'1'* - contact URI and
		SIP Call-ID matching
	
	
		*'<param_name>'* - only
		the value of the given URI param will be used for
		matching (for example <rinstance>)
  - *'path-off'* - (old *p0* flag)
	(Path support - 'off' mode) - The Path header is saved into usrloc,
	but is never included in the reply.
  - *'path-lazy'* - (old *p1* flag)
	(Path support - lazy mode) The Path header is saved into usrloc, but is only
	included in the reply if path support is indicated in the
	registration request by the "path" option
	of the "Supported" header.
  - *'path-strict'* - (old *p2* flag)
	(Path support - strict mode) - The path header is only saved into usrloc,
	if path support is indicated in the registration request by the
	"path" option of the "Supported"
	header. If no path support is indicated, the request is
	rejected with "420 - Bad Extension" and the
	header "Unsupported: path" is included in
	the reply along with the received "Path"
	header. This mode is the one recommended by RFC-3327.
  - *'path-received'* - (old *v* flag)
	if set, the "received" parameter of the first Path
	URI of a registration is set as received-uri and the NAT
	branch flag is set for this contact. This is useful if
	the registrar is placed behind a SIP loadbalancer, which
	passes the nat'ed UAC address as "received"
	parameter in it's Path uri.
  - *'only-request-contacts'* - (old *o*
	flag) Only include the REGISTER request's Contacts in the 200 OK
	reply, in case the registration is successful.  While this
	is against RFC 3261, it may be useful in certain scenarios.
- *aor (string, optional)* - a custom Address-of-Record.
				If not given, the AOR will be taken from the *To* header URI
- *outgoing_expires (int, optional)* - only relevant
			in Contact/AOR throttling modes, this is a custom value
			for the contact expiration interval of the outgoing REGISTER
			request, which overrides the default
			*[outgoing expires](#param_outgoing_expires)* module parameter.
- *ownership_tag* (string, optional) - a cluster-shared
			tag (see the clusterer module documentation for more details) which
			will be attached to each contact saved from the current request.
			This tag is only relevant in clustered user location scenarios and
			helps determine the current logical owner node of a contact.  This,
			in turn, is useful in order to restrict nodes which are not
			currently responsible for this contact from performing certain
			actions (for example: incorrectly originating pings from a
			non-owned virtual IP address in highly-available setups).


**Return value**


- 1 (success) - current REGISTER request must be dispatched by the
				script writer over to the main registrar
- 2 (success) - current REGISTER request has been absorbed by the
				mid-registrar; a 200 OK reply has been sent upstream
- -1 (error) - generic error code; the logs should provide more help


This function can only be used from the request route.


```c title="*mid_registrar_save* usage"
...
if (is_method("REGISTER")) {
	mid_registrar_save("location");
	switch ($retcode) {
	case 1:
		xlog("L_INFO", "forwarding REGISTER to main registrar...\n");
		$ru = "sip:10.0.0.3:5070";
		if (!t_relay()) {
			send_reply(500, "Server Internal Error 1");
		}

		break;
	case 2:
		xlog("L_INFO", "REGISTER has been absorbed!\n");
		break;
	default:
		xlog("L_ERR", "mid-registrar error!\n");
		send_reply(500, "Server Internal Error 2");
	}

	exit;
}
...
```


#### mid_registrar_lookup(domain[, [flags][, [aor]]])


Function to be called when receiving requests from the main registrar
		(to be routed to the end-user). It performs the local lookup
		(in user location) and the necessary RURI processing in order to route
		the requests further to the end-user registered contacts (note that
		multiple branches/destinations may result after the lookup).


Depending on the current working
		*[mode](#param_mode)*,
		the function will behave as follows:


- in *"mirror"* mode

  - extract the username (Address-of-Record) from the Request-URI
				and look up all of its contact bindings stored in the user
				location. The Request-URI (**$ru**
				variable) will be overwritten with the highest q-value contact,
				with additional branches for each contact being optionally
				created. (depending on the *flags* parameter)
- in *"Contact throttling"* mode

  - extract the *[contact id param](#param_contact_id_param)*
				from the Request-URI, derive the actual SIP URI of the destination
				from it and set it as the new Request-URI of the INVITE
				(**$ru** variable).
- in *"AOR throttling"* mode

  - extract the username (Address-of-Record) from the Request-URI
				and look up all of its contact bindings stored in the user
				location. The Request-URI (**$ru**
				variable) will be overwritten with the highest q-value contact,
				with additional branches for each contact being optionally
				created. (depending on the *flags* parameter)


Meaning of the parameters is as follows:


- *domain (static string)* - logical domain within the registrar.
			If a database is used, then this must be name of the *usrloc*
			table which stores the contacts
- *flags (string, optional) - string composed of one or more of
		the following flags, comma-separated:*

  - *'no-branches'* - (old *b* flag) this
	flag controls how the *mid_registrar_lookup()* function processes multiple contacts.
	If there are
	multiple contacts for the given username in usrloc and this
	flag is not set, Request-URI will be overwritten with the
	highest-q rated contact and the rest will be appended to
	sip_msg structure and can be later used by tm for forking. If
	the flag is set, only Request-URI will be overwritten
	with the highest-q rated contact and the rest will be left
	unprocessed.
  - *'to-branches-only'* - (old *B* flag)
	this flags forces all found contacts to be uploaded only as branches (in the
	destination set) and not at all in the R-URI of the
	current message.  Using this option allows the *mid_registrar_lookup()* function to
	also be used in the context of a SIP reply.
  - *'branch'* - (old *r* flag) this flag
	enables searching through existing branches for aor's and expanding
	them to contacts. For example, you have got AOR A in your
	ruri but you also want to forward your calls to AOR B. In order
	to do this, you must put AOR B in a branch, and if this flag
	enabled, the function will also expand AOR B to contacts,
	which will be put back into the branches. The AOR's that were
	in branches before the function call shall be removed.
**WARNING:**
	*if you want this flag activated,
	the 'no-branches' flag must not be set, because by setting
	that flag you won't allow *mid_registrar_lookup()* to write in a branch.*
  - *'method-filtering'* - (old *m* flag)
	setting this flag will enable contact filtering based on the supported methods
	listed in the "Allow" header field during registration.
	Contacts which did not present an "Allow" header field during
	registration are assumed to support all standard SIP methods.
  - *'ua-filtering=[val]'* (old *u* flag)
	(User-Agent filtering) - this flag enables regexp filtering by user-agent.
	It's useful with enabled append_branches parameter. The value must use the
	format '/regexp/'.
  - *'case-insensitive'* (old *i* flag) -
	this flag enables case insensitive filtering for the 'ua-filtering' flag.
  - *'extended-regexp'* - (old *e* flag)
	this flag enables using of extended regexp format for the 'ua-filtering' flag.
  - *'global'* (old *g* flag) (Global
	lookup) - this flag is only relevant with federated user location clustering.
	If set, the *mid_registrar_lookup()* function will not only perform the classic
	in-memory "search-AoR-and-push-branches" operation, but will
	also perform a metadata lookup and append an additional branch
	for each returned result. The "in-memory branches" correspond
	to local contacts (current location), while the "metadata
	branches" correspond to contacts available on one or more of
	the remaining locations of the platform.
The AoR metadata consists of the minimally required information
	in order for one of the VoIP platform's locations (data
	centers) to advertise the presence of a locally registered AoR
	for the global platform. Specifically, this consists of two
	pieces of information:
	
	
		the AoR (e.g. "vladimir@federation-cluster")
	
	
		the home IP (e.g. "10.0.0.223")
  - *'max-ping-latency=[int]'* - (old *y*
	flag) maximally accepted contact pinging latency (microseconds). Contacts of an
	AoR with a higher latency will be discarded during *mid_registrar_lookup()*.
  - *'sort-by-latency'* - (old *Y* flag)
	contacts will be picked in ascending order of their last successful
	pinging latency (fastest ping -> slowest ping). This flag may
	work together with the "max-ping-latency" flag.
- *aor (string, optional)* - a custom Address-of-Record.
				If not given, the AOR will be taken from the *Request-URI*


Return codes:


- **1** - contacts found and successfully
	pushed as branches.  Contacts which required awakening prior to being
	reachable are being notified via async Push Notifications.
- **2** - successfully started at least one
	async Push Notification for the found contacts, however no extra branches
	were populated (i.e. there is no need to call t_relay()).
- **-1** - no contact found.
- **-2** - contacts found, but neither of them
	supports the current SIP method.
- **-3** - internal error during processing.


This function can only be used from the request route.


```c title="*mid_registrar_lookup* usage"
...
	# initial invites from the main registrar - need to look them up!
	if (is_method("INVITE") and $si == "10.0.0.3" and $sp == 5070) {
		if (!mid_registrar_lookup("location")) {
			t_reply(404, "Not Found");
			exit;
		}

		if (!t_relay())
			send_reply(500, "Server Internal Error 3");

	    exit;
	}
...
```


### Exported Asynchronous Functions


#### pn_process_purr(domain)


Perform mid-dialog request processing, according to RFC 8599.  For
		such requests, search the R-URI and topmost Route header field URI for
		a *";pn-purr"* parameter value that both matches the
		OpenSIPS PURR format and corresponds to an usrloc registration. Once a
		usrloc contact is located, trigger an [E_UL_CONTACT_REFRESH](../usrloc#event_E_UL_CONTACT_REFRESH)
		event and place the request on async hold for at most
		[pn refresh timeout](#param_pn_refresh_timeout) seconds, until a matching
		REGISTER request arrives.


If processing ends before triggering the Push Notification, the request
		will no longer be put on async hold, with the resume route being
		immediately called.


Meaning of the parameters is as follows:


- *domain (static string)* - Logical domain within
			registrar.  If a database is used, then this must be name of the
			table which stores the contacts.


**Return Codes**


- **1** - Success, PN was launched.
- **2** - Success,
				but PN was not launched (due to missing PURR, foreign PURR or
				offline contact)
- **-1** - Internal Error


```c title="async pn_process_purr() usage"
route {
	...
	if (has_totag()) {
		if (is_method("ACK") && t_check_trans()) {
			t_relay();
			exit;
		}

		if (!loose_route()) {
			send_reply(404, "Not Found");
			exit;
		}

		if (!is_method("ACK"))
			async (pn_process_purr("location"), resume_route);

		route(relay);
		exit;
	}
}

route [resume_route] {
	$var(rc) = $rc;
	xlog("pn_process_purr() finished with $var(rc)\n");

	...
}
```
<!-- CONTRIBUTORS -->

### License

All documentation files (i.e. .md extension) are licensed under the Creative Common License 4.0
