---
title: "mi_xmlrpc_ng Module"
description: "This module implements a xmlrpc server that handles xmlrpc requests and generates xmlrpc responses. When a xmlrpc message is received a default method is executed."
---

## Admin Guide


### Overview


This module implements a xmlrpc server that handles xmlrpc
		requests and generates xmlrpc responses.
		When a xmlrpc message is received a default method is executed.


At first, it looks up the MI command.
		If found it parses the called procedure's parameters
		into a MI tree and the command is executed.
		A MI reply tree is returned that is formatted back in xmlrpc.
		The response is built in two ways - like a string that
		contains the MI tree nodes information (name, values and
		attributes) or like an array whose elements are consisted
		of each MI tree node stored information.


### Dependencies


#### External Libraries or Applications


The following libraries or applications must be installed before
		running OpenSIPS with this module loaded:


- *libxml2*


#### OpenSIPS Modules


The following modules must be loaded before this module:


- *httpd* module.


### Exported Parameters


#### http_root(string)


Specifies the root path for xmlrpc requests:
		http://[opensips_IP]:[opensips_httpd_port]/[http_root]


*The default value is "RPC2".*


```c title="Set http_root parameter"
...
modparam("mi_xmlrpc_ng", "http_root", "opensips_mi_xmlrpc")
...
```


#### format_version(integer)


Specifies which formatting to be used for the output generated by the
	module. The value of 2 will generate a response broken in many tags
	which doesn't require string parsing, only xml parsing, this is the newer
	version. The other accepted value is 1 which will generate a long simple
	sting response, this is the older vesion.


*The default value is 2.*


```c title="Set format_version parameter"
...
modparam("mi_xmlrpc_ng", "format_version", 1)
...
```


#### trace_destination (string)


Trace destination as defined in the tracing module. Currently
		the only tracing module is **proto_hep**.
		This is where traced mi messages will go.


**WARNING:**A tracing module must be
			loaded in order for this parameter to work. (for example
			**proto_hep**).


*Default value is none(not defined).*


```c title="Set trace_destination parameter"
...
modparam("proto_hep", "trace_destination", "[hep_dest]10.0.0.2;transport=tcp;version=3")

modparam("mi_xmlrpc_ng", "trace_destination", "hep_dest")
...
```


#### trace_bwlist (string)


Filter traced mi commands based on a blacklist or a whitelist.
		**trace_destination** must be defined for
		this parameter to have any purpose. Whitelists can be defined using
		'w' or 'W', blacklists using 'b' or 'B'. The type is separate by the
		actual blacklist by ':'. The mi commands in the list must be separated
		by ','.


Defining a blacklists means all the commands that are not blacklisted
			will be traced. Defining a whitelist means all the commands that are
			not whitelisted will not be traced.
			**WARNING:** One can't define both
			a whitelist and a blacklist. Only one of them is allowed. Defining
			the parameter a second time will just overwrite the first one.


**WARNING:**A tracing module must be
			loaded in order for this parameter to work. (for example
			**proto_hep)**.


*Default value is none(not defined).*


```c title="Set trace_destination parameter"
...
## blacklist ps and which mi commands
## all the other commands shall be traced
modparam("mi_xmlrpc_ng", "trace_bwlist", "b: ps, which")
...
## allow only sip_trace mi command
## all the other commands will not be traced
modparam("mi_xmlrpc_ng", "trace_bwlist", "w: sip_trace")
...
```


### Exported Functions


No function exported to be used from configuration file.


### Known Issues


Commands with large responses (like ul_dump) will fail if the
		configured size of the httpd buffer is to small (or if there
		isn't enough pkg memory configured).


Future realeases of the httpd and mi_xmlrpc_ng modules
		will address this issue.


### Example


This is an example showing the xmlrpc format for the
		"get_statistics net: uri:" MI commad:
		response.


```c title="XMLRPC request"
POST /xmlrpc HTTP/1.0
Host: my.host.com
User-Agent: My xmlrpc UA
Content-Type: text/xml
Content-Length: 216

<?xml version='1.0'?>
<methodCall>
	<methodName>get_statistics</methodName>
	<params>
		<param>
			<value><string>net:</string></value>
		</param>
		<param>
			<value><string>uri:</string></value>
		</param>
	</params>
</methodCall>


HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-Length: 236
Content-Type: text/xml; charset=utf-8
Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2013 12:00:00 GMT

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><methodResponse><params><param><value><string>
:: net:waiting_udp = 0
:: net:waiting_tcp = 0
:: uri:positive checks = 0
:: uri:negative_checks = 0
</string></value></param></params></methodResponse>
```


*doc copyrights:*
<!-- CONTRIBUTORS -->

### License

All documentation files (i.e. .md extension) are licensed under the Creative Common License 4.0
